## Introduction to NodeJS

- We cannot execute JS outside of the browser.
- JS is a language which can be executed only in a browser.
- Because every browser has a built in JS engine in it.
- Executing JS outside of the browser was not possible.
- Every browser has its own engine, chrome uses v8 engine, firefox used spidermonkey engine and safari uses apple engine.
- Ryan Dahl combined chrome's v8 engine and C++ by embedding it in C++ code and made nodeJS runtime.

> NodeJS
- You can run JS outside of the browser
- JavaScript can talk to native machine because of C++
- You can create webservers in JavaScript language
- NodeJS is an open-source, cross-platform runtime environment for JavaScript


#### Installing NodeJS
- We can install NodeJS from official site and use it to run JS in terminal
- Type in ```node``` in terminal and we can use JS


### Basics of NodeJS

- We can run a JS file using NodeJS by opening a terminal in the folder where JS file is present and using the command : ```node fileName.js``` or ```node fileName``` (we can skip .js entension since nodeJS can only run JS files)
- Some features that are provided via JavaScript by the browser (such as Window object, alert, etc) are not provided by NodeJS since we are not executing the code in browser


### npm
- ```npm init``` command helps us to manage denepdencies to run a JS project.
- ```npm init``` creates a ```package.json``` file which has all the required configuration for the project.
- int the "scripts" key in ```package.json``` file we can add one more script, e.g., ```"start" : "node fileName.js"``` to run the file, similar to the "test" command.
- similarly, all the dependencies, packages are listed in ```package.json```
