# History of JavaScript

1. In 1995, a popular web browser netscape navigator felt the urge to have a programming language which could add interactivity in the websites.
2. So, a person working for Netscape Navigator, Brendan Eich creates JS in just 10 days.
3. He named the language first to Mocha, then to LiveScript, but it was not so popular.
4. That time, Java was really popular language, so Netscape Navigator named LiveScript to JavaScript.
5. Internet explorer, a popular web browser then, i 1996 felt that Netscape Navigator is becoming famous because of JS and they should do something like this too.
6. So, Internet explorer picked JavaScript, implemented some if its features and some additional features and named it to JScript.
7. Due to this, web developers had to develop the same website for two web browsers and specify which browser the site works best in.
8. So, ECMA standardized JavaScript and made JavaScript- EcmaScript a standardized languages with predefined functionalities for web browsers to work in a specified way.
9. In 1997, ECMA launched ES1 (EcmaScript 1), its first specification, and similarly launched ES2, ES3 and ES4.
10. In ES5 launched in 2009, there were a lot of new features introduced in JavaScript. It became really popular because of this back then.
11. After ES5, the biggest update by ES was launched in 2015, which was ES6 and it was the biggest update of JS in the history of JS ever.
12. JavaScript is backward compatible - which means I can still use features from first release of JS version,
13. But it is not forward compatible - which means I cannot use today's JS on old browsers, so transpiler tools like babel are used for these purposes.

14. 

15. 
